##################
CodeIgniter の URL
##################

CodeIgniter のデフォルトの URL は、検索エンジンにも人間にもわかりやすいように
設計されています。動的システムの代名詞といえる一般的な"クエリ文字列"アプローチ
を採用する代わりに、CodeIgniter では次のような **セグメントベースアプローチ**
を採用しています::

	example.com/news/article/my_article

.. note:: 後述するように、クエリ文字列をURLで使用することも
	できます。

URI セグメント
==============

Model-View-Controller アプローチに従うと、URL
の中では、セグメントは大抵次のように表現されます::

	example.com/class/function/ID

#. 最初のセグメントは呼び出すべきコントローラ **クラス** を
    あらわします。
#. 2番目のセグメントは、クラスの呼び出されるべき **関数**
   またはメソッドをあらわします。
#. 3番目以降のセグメントは、コントローラに渡される ID
   などの値をあらわします。

:doc:`URI クラス <../libraries/uri>` と :doc:`URL ヘルパー
<../helpers/url_helper>` には URI データを簡単に扱うためのメソッドが用意
されています。 さらに、
:doc:`URI ルーティング <routing>` 機能を用いれば、より柔軟に URLを再マッピングすることができます。

index.php ファイルを除去する
===========================

初期状態では、index.php ファイルが URL の中に含まれる格好になっています::

	example.com/index.php/news/article/my_article

If your Apache server has *mod_rewrite* enabled, you can easily remove this
file by using a .htaccess file with some simple rules. Here is an example
of such a file, using the "negative" method in which everything is redirected
except the specified items:

::
	
	RewriteEngine On
	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-f
	RewriteCond %{REQUEST_FILENAME} !-d
	RewriteRule ^(.*)$ index.php/$1 [L]

上の例では、既存のディレクトリおよびファイル以外へのあらゆる HTTP
リクエストは、 index.php ファイルへのリクエストとして取り扱われます。

.. note:: These specific rules might not work for all server configurations.

.. note:: Make sure to also exclude from the above rule any assets that you
	might need to be accessible from the outside world.

URL サフィックス(接尾辞)の追加
==============================

In your **config/config.php** file you can specify a suffix that will be
added to all URLs generated by CodeIgniter. For example, if a URL is
this::

	example.com/index.php/products/view/shoes

You can optionally add a suffix, like **.html,** making the page appear to
be of a certain type::

	example.com/index.php/products/view/shoes.html

Enabling Query Strings
======================

In some cases you might prefer to use query strings URLs::

	index.php?c=products&m=view&id=345

CodeIgniter optionally supports this capability, which can be enabled in
your **application/config.php** file. If you open your config file you'll
see these items::

	$config['enable_query_strings'] = FALSE;
	$config['controller_trigger'] = 'c';
	$config['function_trigger'] = 'm';

If you change "enable_query_strings" to TRUE this feature will become
active. Your controllers and functions will then be accessible using the
"trigger" words you've set to invoke your controllers and methods::

	index.php?c=controller&m=method

.. note:: If you are using query strings you will have to build your own
	URLs, rather than utilizing the URL helpers (and other helpers
	that generate URLs, like some of the form helpers) as these are
	designed to work with segment based URLs.